well howdy there internet people it's
beau again so today we're going to do an
in-depth exploration of a topic we're
going to talk about something and we're
going to look at the history of it and
we're going to discuss it because
there's a lot of confusion about the
Second Amendment on both sides on both
sides of this debate so we're gonna find
out what does it mean in order to do
that we're gonna have to know where it
came from along the way we're gonna find
out who it applies to what it protects
and then we can talk about whether or
not we should keep it so what is the
Second Amendment a well-regulated
militia being necessary to the security
of a free State the right of the people
to keep and bear Arms shall not be
infringed one sentence and because it's
a little murky there's been debate over
it for years if only there was some
document we could look back to to find
out what it really meant if only there
was a historical record that could clear
this up for us there is there is because
while Thomas Jefferson gets a lot of
credit for writing a lot of things the
reality is there's a guy named George
Mason who kind of got swept from history
a little bit there are a lot of
references to him still but he's not
somebody we hold up as a founding father
very often and we'll find out why along
the way but Mason what he did was he
wrote a lot of stuff then kind of handed
it to Jefferson it was like hey here's
my homework change it up a little bit so
the teacher doesn't notice so one more
time the Second Amendment is a
well-regulated militia being necessary
to the security of a free State the
right of the people to keep and bear
Arms shall not be infringed okay
stop me when this sounds familiar
a well-regulated militia composed of the
body of the people trained to arms is
the proper natural and safe defense of a
free State that standing armies in time
of peace should be avoided as dangerous
to Liberty and that in all cases the
military should be under strict
subordination to and governed by the
civil power that is section 13 of the
Virginia Declaration of Rights written
before the Second Amendment it's written
by George Mason so what's different well
the most obvious part is they took out
that part about standing armies being
dangerous now why did they do that
article 1 section 8 Clause 12 of the US
Constitution grants the government the
power to have a standing army it
wouldn't make a whole lot of sense to
have something in the Bill of Rights
saying that was dangerous so it got left
out even though they still believed it
was dangerous this is evidenced by the
fact that although they allowed a
standing army well they could only find
it for two years at a time
San Klaus the other part is what has
become so murky composed of the body of
the people got changed to the people and
that became confusing because it
mentions a militia as well this Bob and
Mason a lot one of the reasons that we
don't hear about him as much is because
he didn't sign the constitution in fact
he went back home to his home state and
argued against ratifying it part of the
reason was the ambiguity of some of the
things in it he also felt they gave the
feds too much power
I can understand him being angry about
his work being a little bit more clouded
because the other people he gave his
homework to well they made it more clear
not less let me know if this sounds
familiar
rather than section 13 it is article 13
of pennsylvania's that the people have a
right to bear arms for the defence of
themselves and the state and is standing
armies and the time of peace are
dangerous to Liberty they ought not to
be kept up and that the military should
be kept under strict subordination to
and governed by the civil power that
even change that last part but they did
change the beginning they added that
protect themselves so it's definitely an
individual right it was certainly
intended to be that historically there's
not a lot of evidence of any kind
whatsoever to suggest otherwise
it is definitely an individual right now
you don't actually have to take my word
for it because George Mason himself when
he was arguing against adopting
something he answered the question who
is the militia and this is really cool
because you're also going to get a dose
of class consciousness from the 1700s
I asked who are the militia they
consists now of the whole people except
a few public officers but I cannot say
who will be the militia of the future
day if that paper on the table gets no
alteration the militia of the future day
may not consist of all classes high and
low and rich and poor but they may be
confined to the lower and middle classes
of people granting exclusion to the
higher classes of people with bone spurs
okay I made that last part up but
it was very clear the guy who wrote it
it's the whole people it's an individual
right extending low to high
everybody now at the time this just
meant guys that look like me who own
land but as our country has evolved it
has begun it now applies to everybody
because now everybody is supposed to
have full rights in this country so now
we know who it applies to now the next
question is what does it protect and in
order to understand that we have to
address that linger in question if they
decided to have standing armies why on
earth do we need the Second Amendment
why would we need a militia if we're
gonna have a standing army that doesn't
make sense we're gonna have the militia
to fight the standing army if need be
that's really why it was there the idea
was that the locals would be able to
defeat the federal troops or foreign
troops or whoever it may be because they
know the terrain so it was left in there
the Second Amendment was designed to
give parity of arms between the average
person and a soldier parity of arms what
that means is that the Second Amendment
was specifically designed to protect
weapons of war I know we hear that a lot
today we don't want weapons of war on
our streets and maybe we don't but
that's what the Second Amendment was
designed to protect and you don't have
to take my word for that in the 1930s
two guys bought some shotguns their
barrels were too short and the federal
government had made a regulation saying
he couldn't have short-barreled shotguns
less barrels with less than 18 inches
they claimed it was their second
Amendment right in US vs. Miller 1939
this is what the Supreme Court had to
say about
in the absence of any evidence tending
to show that possession or use of a
shotgun having a barrel less than 18
inches in length
at this time has some reasonable
relationship to the preservation or
efficiency of a well-regulated militia
we cannot say that the Second Amendment
guarantees the right to keep and bear
such an instrument short version since
that shotgun is not a combat shotgun it
is not useful in combat it's not
protected the Second Amendment is there
to protect weapons of war now one of the
funny questions you always get asked the
rhetorical question is what does that
mean that you should be able to buy a
tank in a strict reading of it yeah that
is what it means however I like to think
most people are saying and that might be
a little bit of overkill and I believe
that it's important to note that any
group of people facing off against a
modern military would use asymmetrical
tactics they wouldn't need a tank they
wouldn't need semi-automatic rifles so
so that's where we're at and then the
follow up to that is always you know
well there's no way the founding fathers
could have predicted semi-automatic
rifles they couldn't have predicted the
weapons of war that we have today
now the standby answer to that from the
gun community is well they couldn't have
predicted the internet does that mean
you don't have free speech on the
internet I don't think that's a good
argument I think there's a better one
out there and the better one is they
totally could have predicted but because
there were weapons that were rapid-fire
at the time
check out the Puckle gun pyou ckle
the Belton flintlock the pepperbox
revolver and then there's also an air
rifle that I can't remember the
it's Italian there were what people
today would consider semi-automatic
weapons at the time fact George
Washington commissioned a hundred dalton
flintlocks for his army they never got
delivered because Belton wanted way too
much money so that brings us to the last
question why keep it why do we need this
the founding fathers made a lot of
mistakes but they were smart about a lot
of things this is one of them we keep it
for the same reason they wrote it in
there two hundred years ago as a hedge
against tyranny because it doesn't
matter how many mass shooters you're
talking about which year which decade
you want to add up it doesn't come close
to the number of people killed by
government by dem aside guns don't kill
people
governments do anyway it's just a fault
they'll have a good night